Sherlock texting at a crime scene wasn't unusual.

Sherlock texting, then throwing back his head and laughing fondly, was a bit more out of the ordinary.

"Huh. He's finally cracked. That's a shame, I had him down for three months from now." Donovan cocked her head thoughtfully. "Who won the pool?"

Pointedly ignoring her, Lestrade cleared his throat and asked, "Sherlock, who are you talking to?"

Sherlock's eyes never left the screen. "I'm not talking to anyone."

Oh, for the love of- "Who are you writing to?"

"My boyfriend."

The resulting silence was so poignant that even Sherlock noticed. He looked up, blinking in confusion. "Problem?"

"Your boyfriend," Anderson said incredulously.

"That's what I said," Sherlock snapped back irritably.

"You. Have a boyfriend."

"Anderson, did your remaining brain cells finally decide to make a run for it? You are repeating yourself. Incessantly."

"How much did you pay for him?" Donovan interjected. "You didn't get one of those mail order grooms, did you? You can't trust those, they'll take your life savings and run off to the Cayman Islands."

"All right, that's enough," Lestrade said loudly, interrupting before it devolved into a hissy fight - complete with hair-pulling and biting. There were times when he sorely empathized with his grammar school teacher. "Good on you, Sherlock, but you're at a crime scene. You can text your boy-" His throat seized. His brain refused to use the words "Sherlock" and "boyfriend" in the same sentence with a possessive pronoun. "You can text him later."

"Hardly." Sherlock sniffed. "I'm asking him about the rate of decay of human livers. It's vital to the case."

Donovan's, "Why would he know about decaying body parts? Oh god, you've found yourself a serial killer boyfriend, didn't you?" was drowned out by Lestrade's bellow of, "Sherlock! You can't just give out details of an ongoing investigation!"

"I'm bending enough rules as it is letting you here-"

"It makes a horrific kind of sense-"

"-just because I let you in doesn't mean you can bring along a playmate-"

"-he'll kill people and bring you bits of them to experiment on. He probably does the shopping too, because he's a provider-"

"-there are rules, you daft git. You may not believe in them, but the rest of us have to follow them if we want to get a conviction!"

"-then you'll snuggle on the sofa and talk about your day. He'll tell you about all the people he murdered, you'll tell him about the most gruesome crimes you solved, and it will all be horribly, horribly domestic."

Sherlock glowered at them both. "John's a doctor," he snapped at Donovan. To Lestrade, he said, "And I doubt the Canadians care about a simple inheritance scandal gone wrong."

Lestrade blinked slowly. "The Canadians."

"Oh wonderful, now you're repeating yourself." Sherlock glared at Anderson. "Congratulations, Anderson. You actually performed the first case of human-to-human transmission of stupidity."

"Sherlock!" Lestrade nearly shouted. "What do the Canadians have to do with anything?"

Sherlock looked at the sky, the why-must-my-brilliance-be-saddled-with-these-tiny-minded-mortals expression set firmly on his face. Lestrade was very familiar with that expression. They met frequently.

"John's Canadian. And while he's quite talented, I doubt he can affect the British judicial system from Richmond."

Everyone exchanged looks.

"Sherlock," Lestrade said carefully, "exactly how did you meet, uh, John?"

"Over the internet."

The poignant silence from before was back, along with its friends Awkward and Holy Fuck.

"Oh god," Donovan moaned. "Why couldn't you have found yourself a nice serial killer?"